This video we're going to go through documentation of constraints and it's a little bit of a confusing
process but I want to show you a couple of things with this.
The documentation is leaves a little bit to be desired to be honest as to how you go about doing this.
So we've gone through about setting up these constraints and I'm going to actually add in here set a
Size constraint beer name and we'll say man three and we'll make a max of 100 for the the name of the
beer and then the other ones here will actually come in here and we'll require the quantity on hand
to be positive so these are just standard constraints that we've covered previously in the course so
we're setting up our our output.
Joe what these constraints on it and what would be nice is if we can get information from these into
our documentation in a more automated way and there's a way to do that.
I'm going to show you this.
And what we need to do is set up a custom template first and you can see here under test.
I don't have a Resources Directory so I'm going to come in here and create a new directory.
We'll call that resources like so and notice that until Jay isn't picking that up right away.
Quick trick to get it to recognize that it's to tell maven to reinforce the project and now you can
see that that did now come in.
So it can close up maven.
So I only do here is create a directory I mean it's a new directory and it's very specific to spring
Rostock.
So we've got two org spring framework now it's docs templates like so.
And what we want to do in here is we're going to create a new file and that's gonna be request fields.
That snippet and we'll go ahead and add that and to get for this example.
So this creating that request fields template and now I'm going to copy this.
This is coming out of an example through from the rest ox team.
And this is basically a mustache template and spring rest document.
Neath it is going to be using it.
And what we're doing is the default implementation already has these properties it has a path type and
description.
What we are doing is we're adding in constraints so now we're adding that template for constraint.
So let's go ahead and verify something here.
So let's go ahead and run this right now
and I'm expecting this is going to fail because it's going to see this new template and it did not.
He pauses real quick and take a closer look.
So I paused pause the recording take a closer look at this air and this was my mistake.
So what happened is I created this and one command and until Jay created a directory called or spring
framework dot rust docs dot templates as all one.
And what I need to do is actually come in here and create it as a directory and create each one of those
one at a time so that we get the proper filing.
So I'm going to go ahead and delete this guy.
So that is a directory all one string.
So what's happening is it's not being recognized those need to be actual different directories created
under the resources rather than one blank file name because when spring goes to load this up it's going
to look at the class path and the class path is going to be determined by this directory structure.
So go ahead and flatten these middle packages so I'm used to working in those modes so that was my mistake.
So we want this to be all separate directories in the file system which is why I didn't pick it up.
So now when I run my test what's happening now I come down here to the bottom.
We're seeing that there's no method or field with constraints on it online.
So spring is seeing this now.
So I know that it's being seen by rest docs.
And now I need to go actually configure this and this again this is an example if you'd read through
the documentation what I'm going to show you here is a technique that they have in the hate OS example
they do reference it but it's not explained very well so I'm going to show you this here.
Sorry to come in and this is code that I'm stealing directly from the spring guys.
And what we're doing is we're taking this constrained fields.
And what's important here is we're taking this constraint descriptions we're going to pass in a class
to it spring rest docs is going to use reflection to get information from those field descriptors.
So now let's go ahead and set this up so we can see that are are safe.
Beer is now failing.
And to use this well we wanted to come up here constraint descriptions and we'll call these fields.
So
then we're going to pass on the beer to yoga class
and I am going to spell fields correctly.
So now we have fields here and now we need to modify these fields with power because what's going to
happen is we are passing this down and many collapses to here.
So we can see this little bit better so we're going to come into this class and when we add in a field
descriptor and then use with path and we're passing in the path.
So we're going to be replacing this method here and we're going to see a fields
that could see I have a mistake here.
So I have constraint descriptions I actually want to use constraint fields.
So this class I created so that was my mistake.
So we'll just go and fix that.
So I was referencing this class by mistake.
So we're actually building a wrapper effectively around it.
So now I'm going to do fields with path like so and I want to replace all these instances of it so I'm
going to come up here and I'm just replacing all these occurrences to use that method.
And again what this method is going to do this is going to go in and use the field with path that we
looked at before that we were using before and now we're going to use attributes constraints and we're
going to get basically constraint descriptions from this.
This class we're going to use the built in utility from Spring rest stocks to do a reflection on our
constraint.
So we're gonna be able get get a constraint property so let's go ahead and rerun this right now.
Make sure that is working and now we can see that did pass.
I'm going to open up maven here and resize this a little bit and I'm going to do it clean.
And let's go and do a package and the package is going to kick in the packaging and that's going to
tell spring rest stocks to go ahead and build the documentation.
So we do want to see that.
I'm going to show you the template now.
We haven't looked at it so far but we'll show you what is being generated.
So if we come into Target and we go into generate snippets CV one beer oddly it looks like what we set
up here and be one beer.
And now if we look in two requests fields remember we said the request field snippet this here the requests
fields aid OK so this is the ASCII Doc that's been generated from that mustache template.
So let's go ahead and open that up.
And now we can see that our snippet we can see that we do have constrained information again this is
being done through reflection.
So we have the name of the beer that's a description that we're setting.
And then this must not be blank.
That is being generated from
these values here.
So we're getting it must not be blank.
And then the size value.
So if I come back over here and look at that we can see must not be blank and then size must between
three and one hundred and inclusive so that that is generated right from that.
And if you want to customize these messages there's a lot of ways to do that are a lot of capability
of doing that.
And the spring rest stocks documentation will show you how how to customize these messages.
So if you want to change it for a different language or whatnot.
That is very much within the capabilities of what we have here in Rostock.
Let's just recap real quick what we did in this video.
So I added an edit in the resource directory and then very important that we accidentally found out
that this needs to the actual directories.
So in ontology when you go and create a new directory you'll need to do each segment one at a time.
So that was my mistake.
I've been cut by that in the past.
And then we created this new mustache template to set up the constraints property in our documentation
and then in the test we added in a new class and the embedded class for constrained fields.
And that's going to use constraint descriptors and that is going to allow us to pass in a class and
then this is going to be using reflection and looking at the constraint annotations to get information
about the constraints so it's going to be adding in that constraint properties and extracting metadata
about our constraints using standard Java reflection about those constraints and then we had to modify
our test to use this new descriptor here.
So now because we added in this new snippet with constraints that property must be available in our
output.
Otherwise as I showed you the test will fail and then ultimately we are going to be getting the information
generated in the snippet.